How-To Kong (#4155)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/how-to/request-transformations.md

---
title: "Adding attributes to HTTP requests with Kong Gateway"
description: "A no-code solution to modifying requests for your APIs"
---

It's very common to have an HTTP service which accepts requests expecting a JSON document in the body.
Let's assume that the development team of your service plans to change the request API in the near future, 
and will eventually begin to require a new field in the JSON body of the requests. 
Eventually your client applications will need to upgrade their requests to support this new value, 
but how could you provide a default value for your services in the meantime?

[{{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/) supports a [Plugin](/hub/) 
architecture including a [Request Transformer Plugin](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/) 
that can modify incoming requests before proxying them to your upstream service. 
This can all be accomplished using a no-code solution and managed with no downtime using 
Kong's dynamic administrative capabilities.

This guide will show you how to configure the Request Transformer plugin using 
the [Kong Admin API](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/) to modify incoming 

> requests with a static constant value. Then we will test the feature with a mock 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requests with a static constant value. Then you will test the feature with a mock 
```

> request verifying the transformation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request to verify the transformation process.
```

### Prerequisites

The guide assumes the following:

* You have a {{site.base_gateway}} available for testing and is reachable on `localhost`. 
If you would like help running a local gateway using Docker, see this companion 
[{{site.base_gateway}} in minutes](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/how-to/kong-gateway/) guide. If your gateway is available on 

> a different host, adjust the commands in this guide appropriately.

Author: Please see my adjustments to this section.  I changed the guide to use the environment variables setup in the kong gateway how-to guide, and I clarified that requirement in this prerequisites section.

> a different host, adjust the commands in this guide appropriately.

Author: Please see my changes around using the environment variables as setup by the how-to kong guide

* You have a service named `mock` installed on your gateway. You can adjust the 
commands to use a different service or use the [{{site.base_gateway}} in minutes](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/how-to/kong-gateway) guide to 
run a gateway with a `mock` service.
* You have [`curl`](https://curl.se/) installed on your system, which is used to send 
requests to the gateway. Most systems come with `curl` pre-installed.
* This guide uses the [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) command line JSON processing tool. While
this tool is not necessary to complete the tasks, it's helpful for processing JSON responses from
the gateway. If you do not have `jq` or do not wish to install it, you can modify the commands to remove

> `jq` processing.

Author: I'm not sure we need to use the term "instance" with Kong Gateway, I think that there is a running gateway implies that sufficiently.

> `jq` processing.

Reviewer: I think we can remove `instance` if we also remove 'your' in most cases. So in the sentence: 
You have a service named `mock` installed on your {{site.base_gateway}} instance. You can adjust the 

would change to
You have a service named `mock` installed on {{site.base_gateway}}. You can adjust the 

What do you think about that?

### Steps

There are a large number of Kong plugins, many of which need to 
be [custom installed](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plugin-development/distribution/) 
prior to utilization. Fortunately, Kong ships prepackaged with a number of useful plugins including

> the Request Transformer.

Author: Do we attempt to follow a "link on first mention" pattern in docs?  This is a repetitive link to what's given in the intro, so I didn't see it as a necessary to link on all mentions...

> the Request Transformer.

Reviewer: Makes sense to me

First verify the Request Transformer plugin is available on your gateway by querying the Admin API and using `jq` to filter the response looking at the plugins available on the server.

```sh

> curl -s http://localhost:8001 | \

Author: Yes, good catch. I think what we should do in these how-to docs is assume the user has followed the how-to kong gateway guide, and use the env vars that are setup in that guide.  So I have changed to use `$KONG_ADMIN_API` which is the variable setup in `kong.env`.  I also think if the user hasn't set up their gateway using our guide, the variable name is descriptive enough for them to understand what to do.  Maybe we could come up with a better variable name, but that's what the script outputs for now.

> curl -s http://localhost:8001 | \

Reviewer: If we make this assumption, then the transformation doc should shift this sentence:
```
 If you would like to quickly setup a local {{site.base_gateway}} using Docker and setting up these variables, 
use this companion [{{site.base_gateway}} in minutes](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/how-to/kong-gateway/) guide.```

To suggest that this doc makes the assumption that KG was set up using the other doc.

  jq -r '.plugins.available_on_server."request-transformer"'
```

> The command output should be:

Author: IMO the prerequisite instructions clarifies this enough, but if you feel strongly I will adjust.

> The command output should be:

Reviewer: Currently this is the prereq instruction:

```
* This guide uses the [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) command line JSON processing tool. While
this tool is not necessary to complete the tasks, it's helpful for processing JSON responses from
the gateway. If you do not have `jq` or do not wish to install it, you can modify the commands to remove
`jq` processing.
```

I'm suggesting we remove the 'while this tool is not necessary to complete the tasks.." sentence because it feels like `jq` is an important part of the doc, because you can't run step 1 without it: 

```
First verify the Request Transformer plugin is available on your gateway by querying the Admin API and using `jq` to filter the response looking at the plugins available on the server.

curl -s $KONG_ADMIN_API | \
  jq -r '.plugins.available_on_server."request-transformer"'

```

```
true
```

Now, assign a new instance of the Request Transformer plugin to
the mock service by invoking the following `POST` request to the Admin API.
In this command, the `config.add.body` value instructions the plugin to add a new

> field to the body of incoming requests before forwarding to the `mock` service.

Author: Please see my revised version, I choose to use term "them" here as "the request" became repetitive IMO.

> In this example, we are adding a field named `new-field`, and giving it a static value of

Author: Please see my revised version of this, I think the language is a little tricky, we are telling the plugin to do the work of adding a field, so i think it might be confusing to tell the user to add a field.  I tried to revise to clarify

`defaultValue`. 

```sh
curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/services/mock/plugins \
  --data "name=request-transformer" \
  --data "config.add.body=new-field:defaultValue"
```

The result of that command should be a successful `201 Created` HTTP response code with a 
JSON body including information about the new plugin instance.

The Request Transformer provides the ability to perform much more complex
transformations, see the 
[full documentation](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/) for more detail.

Next, we can use the `mock` service's `/requests` endpoint to test the behavior of the plugin.

> The `/requests` API will echo back valuable information from the request we make to it including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/requests` endpoint will return valuable information from the request including
```

Author: This is nitpicky but the "endpoint" isn't what returns the information, the upstream Service does that (at Kong we seem to tend to use the term API to mean Service which I think is a touch confusing).

Author: I also wanted to emphasize the term "echo" here because that is what the requests service is doing and i think that will help the reader understand what's happening.

> headers and the request body we send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
headers and the request body.
```

```sh
curl -s -XPOST http://localhost:8000/mock/requests \
	-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
	-d '{"existing-field": "abc123"}'
```

> What you should notice in the JSON response is the `postData` value which includes the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JSON response contains the `postData` value which includes the 
```

JSON body sent to the service. 

> Here is a command to use `jq` to fully extract just the request body echoed back from the `mock` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `jq` to fully extract the request body returned back from the `mock` service.
```

```sh
curl -s -XPOST http://localhost:8000/mock/requests \
	-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
	-d '{"existing-field": "Kong FTW!"}' | \
	jq -r '.postData.text'
```

> Which should return the following, indicating `new-field` has been added to the sent request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will output the following text, indicating `new-field` has been added to the request body.
```
